The Joe Rogan experience. Now,
one thing that exists now that really didn't exist when Obama was running for
president is the impact of social media. Yeah.
It's just tenfold what it used to be.
But with that also comes this reality that we're
living in right now,
where there's only a few companies that are controlling the discourse in this
country. Yeah. I mean, you really have essentially a Facebook, Google,
YouTube, Twitter, and Facebook owns Instagram. That's right. And there's,
you know, a couple other small ones, but that that's the bulk of our discourse.
Yeah.
What concern do you have about these private companies
controlling vast majority of communication between people on social media?
Yeah. It's extremely dangerous.
It's extremely dangerous when you think about it.
And there's a few things there's gosh, with, with Facebook, uh,
and Google for that matter, you know, they, they can set their algorithms,
uh, mark Zuckerberg with Facebook and set his algorithm to what information is
coming across our newsfeed in Facebook.
What are the stories that we're seeing Instagram, same thing, uh,
with Google they can control when you punch in something,
what are the first stories that you're gonna see, uh,
on the first page that pops up, uh,
when you think about that kind of power, uh,
influence that it has on the American people,
literally being held within the hands of a couple of people,
unchecked and without oversight or transparency, it's incredibly dangerous.
Let's talk about free speech.
There's just been news recently about Facebook banning certain individuals,
uh, from having Facebook book accounts because of their speech,
they disagree with the speech that they're they're using or the things that
they're talking about, the ideas that they're pushing forward,
unchecked first amendment rights, going completely out the window. And.
The argument is they don't apply because it's a private company, right?
Yes. But they're trying to get the best of both worlds. Um,
the fact that, that, you know, they're claiming to say, Hey,
this is a free space for open communication for everyone, right?
While at the same time going and saying, actually, you know what, Joe,
I don't like what you're saying about this.
So we're gonna ban you and whoever your friends are from,
from this conversation. Um, I think that's, that's a big problem. It undermines,
it undermines our first amendment rights. And you look at privacy,
the privacy concerns of all the information that they're collecting in Facebook
from us, all the information that they're collecting from us, uh,
with Google and how they're monetizing that and selling,
or sharing that information with other people with really, without out our,
our knowledge or agreement, that's.
The part, right? The,
the agreement that most people didn't understand that your data is a huge
commodity that's right. And we signed up for these things. I mean, who,
who reads terms of service agreements? Yeah. Have you ever read one? Yeah. No,
I've never read one of 'em. I just say, okay. Yeah. All right.
I start, I get through like the first two paragraphs, like, okay. I hope.
It's not ugly. Hope. There's nothing terrible in there.
You know what I think back to there is a, a south park episode <laugh> that?
That is specifically about the terms and conditions <laugh> and, uh, I,
I don't watched it a long time ago,
but every time I see one of those things pop up, sign terms, things, I'm like,
oh man. <laugh> yeah.
That was Cartman, right? Yes. Yeah. Something happened. Yeah.
We can't talk about it. Um, but there's,
there's a thing that they're doing. There's,
there's a couple things they're doing,
but one of the things they're doing with this, um, with your data,
they find out what you're interested in.
They find out what you're interested in, engaging on. Yeah.
And for many people that's outrage. Mm-hmm <affirmative>. So for many people,
it's the things that you off the most. Like,
if you have a real problem with Catholic priests,
getting away with having sex with little boys,
you will think that that's happening every minute of every day,
all across the world. Yeah. Because it's gonna be in your newsfeed constantly.
Cause they know that's what makes you in gauge. Right? So your algorithm,
the algorithm is your, your feed is gonna be very different than my feed. Yeah.
Cuz I engage on different things than you do. Yeah.
And the problem with that is even if they're not calculating, if,
if it's not on purpose, they're not trying to get people outraged.
It's not only they're trying to ramblerous but what they are doing is they,
because they have an adporteded mile model, they gravitate towards the,
the outrageous, because that's what people get excited about.
And that's what people make multiple posts about. Exactly.
And that's how they make the revenue. Exactly. Like it's a bad ad model.
It's an, an ad model that inadvertently supports outrage. Yeah.
And it makes people think the worldiviveness.
And, and all.
Of it. And this, the, the, the tribal boundary between the,
the two sides yeah. On these issues are more tense. And,
and you would think that discourse and the ability to freely communicate would
kind of open that up and people would kind of understand each other better.
Yeah. But it's not happening. Yeah.
It's like think Twitter is a garbage fire all day long. It's just fire. Yeah.
Like you can't post anything about anything and there's people is jumping on
people and yeah. It's,
it's a crazy thing that has happened that we gravitate towards the outrageous.
Yeah. I don't think that should be rewarded financially. Yeah.
I think that's not, if this is just what people go to organically,
that's one thing. But when you're cultivating feeds,
so, or at least your algorithm is cultivating feeds so that people get off,
you're making the country a shittier place. Yeah.
Like you're literally like making things worse.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, this is one of the reasons why, um,
I think a couple of things should happen and, and uh,
I think his name is Chris Hughes who co-founded Facebook with Zuckerberg. I saw.
Yeah. Did you see his article? Yes. Calling for Facebook to be broken up.
Yes. And which is crazy. Yeah.
You hear about the person who founded it and he's saying this is out of control.
And that's the point right now is, is seeing how powerful,
as you said, guys, like mark Zuckerberg have become and uh,
and how outta control things are.
Well, some of it just doesn't make sense. Like here's one,
they just banned Alex Jones. Yep. Not only did they ban Alex Jones,
but you can't talk about Alex Jones. If you wrote,
Alex Jones might be nuts, but is he cute? If you wrote that it would,
you would get a message that says only you can see this message,
this message is stopped at the border from entering into the
Facebook universe. Like what the? It's crazy. You can't just like,
what if you wanna say something funny? Yeah. You can't say something funny. No,
you can only say something if you're criticizing him. Right.
This is what they've said. Wow. So they're telling you how to think,
which is insane.
It is insane because that's not just free SP that's not just like a violation of
free speech. You're literally directing speech. Yeah.
Like that's insane. Yeah. So you're, you're,
you're not even blocking people from doing something hateful or evil.
You're block people from saying something that you disagree with that's right.
Which is, uh, people have sent me messages that said, uh, God bless Alex Jones.
And they say, I, you could only see this message. Facebook sends them a thing,
blocking that message. Wow. That's crazy. Yeah. Like the,
the idea that you think you can do that. Yeah. That is nuts. Yeah. I mean,
being able to ban any one arbitrarily without any just violated terms of
service. There you go. What does that mean? Yep. Okay. Be specific. Yeah.
And how come? I mean, they've they took a, a bunch of people out, right?
Like Louis farracon was one Alex Jones, Paul, Joseph Watson was like,
what did that guy ever do? I mean, people don't agree with them. Like,
I think what's happening.
You is there was some serious concern that Facebook was used
to influence the last election. Mm-hmm <affirmative> in a, again,
whether against their knowledge or in a,
a way where they were negligent about the type of filtering they use that stops
people from posting propaganda and particularly stops these things like the,
I R a,
the internet research agency in Russia that literally creates thousands of
profiles and pages. And they'll have a black lives matter page.
That's just designed to with cops.
And then they'll have a Procop page that's just designed to with black lives
matter. Mm-hmm <affirmative> all they want to do is create anger.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and, and they're doing this engineering, these arguments,
I mean, this is,
this is a hundred percent proven fact Renee doreta who had been on my podcast,
went over the details of how it's set up and how they do it and the memes and
the memes that they create. Like,
this is an organized effort that they channeled through Facebook in particular.
Yeah. And then Instagram and a couple other social media sites. Yeah.
You know, what's interesting about Renee, she worked for new knowledge. Right?
I do not know. I think she was a director for new knowledge. Um,
they,
this company new knowledge that the DNC has tapped as one of their,
um, I don't know,
disinformation campaign experts and cyber experts was the very same
company that created false accounts and pretended to
be Russian bots in order to influence a us Senate election in
Alabama. Yeah.
I'd heard of that. Right. That, so that's something that she was not a part of,
but it happened time. I don't Don know.
Her. She.
Was a director of research.
It says at new knowledge. Right.
And that, but that's post this happening. Correct. I don't, no,
she sent me an email about it.
I cuz I questioned her about it after it happened. Yeah.
And I don't think she's full of. Yeah.
Well I, yeah, I I've never met her,
but I know that that company mm-hmm <affirmative> is one that is often as a,
as a so-called expert and was a company that was cited, um,
uh, to try to smear my campaign as somehow being a, a,
an engine for the Russians or something like that. Which, which to me, again,
just points to, well, let's look at, let's look at the expert,
the so-called experts that you're citing and this company knowledge and the
kinds of actions that they've been taking,
the very same ones that they're criticizing others for doing it's a dirty.
World out there. <laugh>.
It's a dirty wild, wild west than the internet. <laugh> it.
Is what's it is a wild west in a sense that, I mean,
I think there should be regulation. Like, I mean,
I don't think you should be able to put child porn everywhere.
Don't think you should be able to docs people. Yeah. But it's like,
where does that border stop? Yeah. Where does that regulation border stop? Yeah.
And I think it's a very good question.
Do you think that these social media platforms,
whether it's Google or Twitter or whatever Facebook do you think that they
should be treated as a public utility where everyone essentially has the right
to use them, you have the right to use water.
You don't have the right to take a hose and smash your neighbor's window and
flood his house. That's right.
I do.
I do think that they should be regulated like that and they should be subject to
the very same antitrust laws that have been used to make sure that we don't
have other monopolies in other industries or in other areas, uh, to,
to, to break them up. Mm-hmm <affirmative>. And I think that was something that,
uh, that Chris Hughes outlined in his article,
the very first step that could be taken is just to say, Hey, you've got a, uh,
you've got Facebook needs to let go of Instagram and WhatsApp mm-hmm
<affirmative> because that was some that,
that acquisition created an even stronger monopoly that really shouldn't and
allowed to take place in the beginning. And so there are, there are, uh,
concerns about the kind of power being, um, you know,
consolidated into the hands of a very few people, uh,
as well as how that's impacting, uh, any kind of, uh,
competition and squashing that competition from coming up and saying, Hey,
you know,
you've got Facebook book and then you've got this other new techn social media
technology.
They've got better privacy standards and better service for the consumer than
Facebook. But anytime that, that tries to happen, uh, you know,
they're quickly squashed by companies like Facebook or Google for that matter or
bought up or bought up.
Exactly. Yeah. That's, that's,
that's the big concern is that there's just not enough variety.
And there's also a big concern that I have a big concern that there's a bunch of
people that don't seem to understand the consequences of what they're calling
deplatforming people, which basically censoring people,
taking people out of the public discussion. Mm. And when,
when you do that and you create a bubble or you create
a one party leaning institution, one party leaning,
conglomeration of human beings,
you're gonna develop some real anger yeah. On the other side. It, yeah. And it,
it does the opposite of what you want it to do.
What you wanted to do was make the world a better place.
Let's take some of these angry voices out of the mix and let's make the world a
better place. Yeah. It just makes them more angry.
And encourage, encourage discourse,
encourage these kinds of conversations where you can,
you can engage with people who might have a different view on an issue or have a
different experience that they bring to the conversation and to do.
So that actually helps increase the knowledge and understanding, um,
that we have.
Yeah. I think we have to reward civil discourse as well. Yeah.
I think we have to be kinder to each other and we have to,
we have to be more upset at people that are acting like shitheads
online for no reason. Like, you're just, you think that it's just online. Yeah.
But it, what it is, is communication. Yep.
And if you're interested in communication online, you're just a communicator.
Yeah. Okay. All this calling it, being a troll and all this different things,
all these different labels that people put on to make it cuter and whitewash it,
it's not good. It's not good for anybody. Yeah. And,
and if people could figure out how to be less angry in their
online lives and, and communicate about issues,
I think we'd find that we meet more in the middle than we think we do.
I think there's also a problem that people have where they become married to
their ideas and they dig their heels in and they,
they support their ideology and they very rigid about it. Yeah.
And that is only strengthened when you silence people. Yeah. Yeah.
It's it does the opposite of what you're hoping it's gonna do.
It makes the world a worse place. It makes look,
if people are saying things that you don't like,
you don't have to read that mm-hmm <affirmative>.
But if you tell people that no one can read that they'll they're gonna go.
Why do you get to decide exactly. And who are you? Who are you?
You are a regular person. Mm-hmm <affirmative> how wise are you? Yeah.
How many steps ahead have you played this game? That's right.
Cause I'm looking at this game, I'm looking at civil war. Yeah.
I'm looking at worst case scenario. This goes to that. That goes to this. Yeah.
This guy attacks that, that guy attacks this, they can't talk anymore.
You got people fighting in the streets. Exactly. That happens. Exactly.
That's a human characteristic.
That's right. That's right. And that's, that is where this path ends up.
This path that we're on of this, this hyperpartisanship yes.
This extreme divisiveness where it's either you're in my tribe or you're in the
other tribe and the arrows are pointed at each other without any willingness to
once again, just let's just have a conversation.
Let me hear where you're coming from here, where I'm coming from.
We can disagree without being disagreeable.
We can even have a heated conversation and a debate.
And I would, the end of it, say what you're saying is patriotic. Yeah.
This is patriotic. And I think it's unpatriic to be partisan. Yeah.
Because I think we're supposed to be on a team together. Yeah.
This is supposed to be team America. Right? Exactly. Exactly. What are we doing?
Exactly.
We're we're fighting over nonsense and MIS mischaracterizing people's positions
just to suit our own ideas. That's right. It's, it's foolish.
It's it's foolish. And as you said, it's extremely dangerous.
And the American people are the ones who, who ultimately lose in all of this.
I.